hey there I'm syv Perez I'm the founder
of adcon conversion.com and in this
quick video tutorial we're going to talk
about B2B Google ads and I really want
this video to be a foundational video
for you in terms of a crash course so
that you can get up to speed on Google
ads for B2B and if it's something worth
exploring further so to go through this
entire video I'm actually going to be
referencing this article as a as a
visual reference and I'll link this
article in the description box down
below where it has everything that we'll
talk about today listed out for you uh
so let's go ahead and start from the top
here just at a a very high level which
is what is Google ads in the first place
so as you may know uh people go to
Google to search for a multitude of
things and reasons right there's over a
billion searches happening on Google uh
every single day which is mindboggling
when you think about it and the the
whole name of the game on Google is how
do you actually show up on the top of
the page right so for example let's say
you're a B2B SAS company in the CRM
space and for you it's CRM software if
someone sh uh searches CRM software that
is a really high intense search that you
ideally would love to show up for so you
can see here on the top of the page we
have different ads these are Google ads
and you know they are because of the
sponsored uh label here and each one of
these companies are paying money to show
up on the top of the page now this is
called the search engine results page or
known as the ser and the Ser I like to
think about it as a Battleground and in
this Battleground you have thousands of
of advertisers competing to show up in
that specific moment when that specific
person in that specific region in that
specific time of day in that specific
location uh in that specific device is
making that specific search term and
they're searching that specific keyword
so you can see here I search CRM
software and Google is only showing me
uh right now four ads here on the top of
the page and Google's always mixing and
matching and playing with different
layouts in terms of how many ads they
show but right now you can see I've got
four ads here this is four ads of
thousands of other advertisers that you
don't see here that want to be showing
up but they're losing to these four
competitors that you see here on this
page and when it comes to Google ads
it's all about showing up on the top
three spots because I don't know about
you I don't remember the last time I
scrolled past the second page on Google
to be able to find what I'm looking for
so you want to make sure you show up on
the top of the page which is the the the
whole premise and the objective of
Google ads is how do you do that in the
most coste effective way possible now
the other thing to note about Google ads
specifically that's very unique and
which is why it makes it so compelling
for a lot of advertisers is with Google
ads you're only charged on a cost per
click basis meaning these advertisers
that you see in front of me so
Salesforce freshworks clickup and
Linkedin they are not paying anything
right now I search CRM software and
their ad appeared but they're only
charged until I click on one of their
ads so once I click on their ad they're
then charge for the click and depending
on the keyword that you're bidding on
and the level of competition for that
keyword you will pay a different
corresponding cost for click price now
if you're wondering how much does it
cost for my keywords that I'm
considering advertising on for my B2B
business what I recommend that you do is
you go and create a free Google ad
account and once you create your free
Google ads account you go to the tool
section Keyword Planner under planning
and then you navigate to discover new
keywords and then under here you
research the keywords that you're
considering investing in so continuing
on our example around CRM software I'm
going to go ahead and search that here
and let's see how expensive it is to
advertise on CRM software in the United
States so I'm going to click get results
and I'm going to come down here and I
can see this is the keyword it's got
between 10 and 100,000 searches a month
so it's quite quite a popular keyword
and if you look at at the top of page
bid high range I recommend you always
look at the high range this is how much
Google is estimating it will cost to be
on the top three spots they're going to
pay
$419 per click so it is not a cheap
keyword uh for those uh different
advertisers that are showing up on the
top of the page so your bid is not the
only thing that goes into if your ad
actually shows on the top of Google uh
it's it's a multitude of factors but
this is just a quick introduction on how
to think about cost and how to explore
cost I'm I'm actually going to link a
video for you where I break down how to
actually create a starting Google ads
budget and build a winning Google ads
budget strategy that I think you'll be
find really helpful but let this be as a
good starting point on kind of an intro
of Google ads so going back to our our
article here if you want to learn more
on forecasting check out that video I'll
walk you through how to also use our
Google ads budget calculator and create
a forecast based on worst case moderate
case and best case scenarios um coming
back to the central point of this video
I kind of alluded to this but Google ads
what makes it so powerful is it's not
just about who's willing to pay the most
so going back to the search results page
here you can see Salesforce is a number
one freshworks is number two uh clickup
is number three LinkedIn is number four
typically if you see this layout your
where your mind might go in traditional
advertising is you would say Salesforce
is paying the most that's why they're in
position one freshworks is paying the
second most that's why they're position
two clickup is paying the third most and
so on and so forth and that is actually
not true the reason Google ads is so
powerful is because of intent and it's
the combination of intent and quality
score that really makes this a very
powerful mix so let me go ahead and
unpack this because I'm saying some some
technical words here so intent what do I
mean by that I mean people who are
actively researching right so I'm going
to Google I know I have a problem and in
this case I'm looking for CM software
all you've got to do is show up and not
mess it up right and create a good post
click experience in terms of the landing
page you drive me to that's really
powerful and and unfortunately with
Google ads you're blessed with intent
but you're always cursed with scale
there's only so many people searching in
your specific areas for that specific
keyword so typically on Google ads you
will hit a scaling wall pretty fast
depending on your B2B organization the
more Niche the more uh Nuance your your
product is the faster you're probably
going to hit that scaling wall compared
to somebody that has a a larger total
addressable Market they operate in a
more known category they're going to
have a lot more scale on Google ads as a
channel so those are some things to
consider now coming back to like why
Google ads is so powerful is because
again it's not about who's willing to
pay the most that's going to show up on
the top of the page it comes down to a
multitude of factors so what determines
if your ad is number one on the top of
the page or on page 2 3 4 5 or nowhere
to be seen for that matter right so
going back here we have four advertisers
that are on the top of the page where
are the other 4,000 that we don't see
the reason these four are on the top of
the page and the other 4,000 aren't is
because of AD rank so your ad rank is
your max bid times your quality score
times your expected impact of add
extensions so these are the three
factors that go into determining if
you're in position one on Google
position two position 3 or in position
4,000 nowhere to be seen so it's these
three things so your bid only takes up
onethird of the entire ad rank formula
the other one is your quality score and
then the third one is your expected
impact of AD extensions I will link
videos for you diving more into quality
score and add extensions uh for future
reference but just know right now the
big takeaway here is when it comes to
Google ads the reason it's so powerful
is because it's not just about who's
willing to pay the most it's about who's
the most relevant so quality score is a
factor of relevance all in in shell your
quick 2C summary on quality score is
it's a number from 1 to 10 10 being the
most relevant one being the least
relevant and the higher the score the
more relevant you are and based on how
relevant you are Google rewards you with
needing less cost per click prices and
being able to get more visibility and
outranking your competitors so by using
the combination of your bids your
quality score and then using ad
extensions you can outrank your
competitors and actually pay less in the
process so what this looks like when
it's all said and done is it might look
something like this where I'll go to my
example here assuming you know
hypothetically speaking if I do click on
this ad Salesforce could pay let's say
$35 freshworks could pay 38 and then
clickup could pay 40 right uh because
again it's not about who's willing to
spend the most that will actually be on
the top of the page it's about who's the
most relevant and who has a competitive
bid and also leveraging ad extensions so
we'll dive more into ad rank in future
videos this is just an introductory
video to kind of give you a sense of how
does Google ads work and and getting
into this this world and this ecosystem
um but just to kind of unpack this as
well is is like I've referenced here is
I have a lot of visuals for you but the
search engine results page is split
between paid and organic results so you
always know it's a paid result because
of the sponsored badge or some sort of
AD badge and then the organic results
won't have that so it's an easy way for
you to distinguish
the other thing as well is just to show
you a quick visual here is like it's
it's not about who's willing to spend
the most right so MailChimp could be
position one here with $25 CPC LinkedIn
position two and then uh brao in this
case in position three so these are the
combinations of factors that make Google
ads really powerful and attractive for
B2B organizations uh because of that
intent now the downside especially with
B2B is the limitations around scale if
Google ads is something that you're
considering further it's definitely one
of the most uh effective channels and
Powerful channels for scaling uh demo
requests free trials event signups
really all kinds of offers in the B2B
space and really throughout the world
it's one of the most powerful
advertising Platforms in the world
across Industries but specifically for
B2B it can be very worthwhile uh
especially given the fact that with
Google ads everything happens on a last
click basis it's very easy to measure
for the most part the downside with
Google ads for B2B B is when it comes to
Long SES Cycles if you have something
that H like let's say an opportunity is
created after a 90-day period then you
can have some issues in terms of offline
conversion tracking but all in all to
keep things simple it's a really
powerful channel for you and it's really
easy to measure because for the most
part it can be measured in terms of a
direct pipe to spend efficiency ratio
meaning I spend a dollar how much
pipeline do I get back and then of that
how much of that pipeline actually
converts into revenue and it's really
easy to track that down to the keyword
level so I wanted this video to serve as
an introductory lesson to Google ads for
you so if you are in the B2B space you
kind of get a sense of what is it how
much will it costs give you some
resources on how to actually calculate
that budget and uh from here how to
actually get your ad on the top of the
page and understand the nuances of why
Google is so attractive for so many B2B
organizations as a Next Step I'm going
to go ahead and Link that budget
strategy video I think it's the perfect
segue from here if you think Google ads
make sense for you the next step is to
figure out how much is it going to cost
and then for forast out what your
potential return can be and then from
there you can start to go down the uh
the rabbit hole of of Google ads and uh
you can check out more videos on our
playlist around Google ads that I think
will be really helpful for you thanks so
much for watching I'll see you in the
next one